# B08-genetictrafficbikelights

## Installation
We are using the SUMO platform(v.1.7.0). 
Installation instructions for SUMO can be found at https://sumo.dlr.de/docs/Installing.html

having SUMO installed and the SUMO_HOME environment variable set correct is required to run the scripts. It is also required to have python3 installed together with the numpy package.

Note that you can set the SUMO_HOME path to `sumo` or `sumo-gui`, where the latter allows you to visually inspect what is happening during the simulation.
We suggest using `sumo` for larger runs and `sumo-gui` for single runs.
## Output

For  `sumo` the output is in the terminal, the first print is the schedule that is run in the simulation while the rest are the simaltion statiscs generated by SUMO, the most important line is the last line where you can see the number of steps in the simulation, the number of vehicles introduced, the number of vehicles active and the number of vehicles in the buffer.

For `sumo-gui` the interface is quite easy to follow. Press the green arrow on top to run or puase the simulation.

## Running the simulation
Run the simulation by calling the python file main.py
eg. python main.py

n.b. this assumes that `python` refers to the python 3 installation, else replace `python` with `python3` in the previous command.

## Collecting data
We collect data using 2 files: results.txt and densities.txt
In results.txt we collect the data regarding one simulation of the Genetic Algorithm: We show the average fitness value at each generation as well as the standard deviations. We also print the best schedule for the simulations. 
In densisties we keep the largest densities for each schedule in the GA. This was done to see what densities we should use when changinf the schedules of the states in the communication part of the experimentations.
NOTE: This files were used only for collecting data for specific runs, the data was later manually processed for the plots and report.

## Ploting the data
After the data was manually collected and processed, MATLAB was used to generate the plots for the report.
